but let's say I prefer Italy that we
find out that a dog is more happy living
with humans that treat them reasonably
well to be happier than it would be in
the wildlife this is a position i'm not
saying this is true i know it but if
this was if it was true if it was true
that hiren could take a dog happier than
it would be in the wildlife but in what
do you base like it being inherently
better for a dog to live in the wild
that need a human if the human treats
the dog you know reasonably well
probably better than another dog's
subjective us as that that maybe I've
understand I'll have some questions why
I know if you would like to make some
first just so I'm not beneath contempt
then again I'm a vegetarian so that's a
bit out of the question yeah that's cool
we already hate each other it's cool man
just go for it okay um well I've never
over first like them reach like you're
talking about right now something about
we don't need a low vegans don't need to
be the majority to have a strong
presence or a strong influence let's say
in society or in the world would you say
that the movement is moving forward like
would you say we are closer right now a
22 vegans or veganism having more power
than we were five years ago or would you
say that's not true uh well the first
little caveat there is you know you what
I say is true of democratic societies
and I'm really talking about wealthy
Western corrupt decadent democratic
societies so I mean you quite right you
give a very good summary of what I said
there that we can be only five percent
and have a big impact I you know I
believe that is true in Canada I believe
that is truly in France and Switzerland
I did have some fans I don't know if
they quit but on my patreon channel
actuates of fans living in
muslim-majority countries that are not
democracy and that's a very different
question how convenient ISM have an
impact anywhere in North Africa anywhere
in the Middle East totally different
questions I just put that in his cab yet
now where you're from are you sure
you're from South America somewhere I
ticket yes i am from ecuador ok you're
from Ecuador so I mean again I just say
I do not assume that that advice I gave
would even be true of Ecuador it may be
like it may be that I gave advice that's
terrific for Ecuador but you know my
experience is mostly living in Asia and
how you would organize vegan activism
even in Cambodia or in Thailand is
totally totally different so I just I
just put that in his cabin because you
you respond to give a very good summary
but then you were talking about the
whole world and in many ways i'm not
talking with the whole world i'm talking
about kind of the richest and laziest
and most democratic so as just a caveat
i want i wanted to poke in there so your
question though is pretty easy for an
answer are things better now than there
were five years ago well more people
even know what the idea of veganism is
so in that really really basic sense
yeah things are better but if you ask
you know do I feel the vegan movement is
moving in a new direction in a good
direction a positive I should know
things are pretty bad within the
movement you know from the inside
looking in things are pretty bad but you
know i mean if you've gone from being
completely unknown to being something
noticed and the people are aware of i
mean to give you a funny example here in
china when i went out to a small town
near the border with myanmar i met a
chinese guy there who spoke English and
when I said that I was vegan he said oh
so you refuse to eat oil you know like
durian riders time he said oh so do you
refuse to eat all all vegetable oil I
was like no I'm vegan you know so it is
kind of weird but some of those ideas
that are really fringe ideas even within
veganism have become very well known
it's like God Here I am in China but not
even a normal part of China I'm Way out
on the border with Myanmar in the middle
of no
we're and this guy's idea of veganism as
vegans are people who refuse to eat oil
to eat who have a low-fat diet who have
00 i wanted diet you know so you know
it's funny yes we are we are known now
and some other really craziest parts of
us are known but if you actually talked
about as a movement as a political
organization we're a total failure so
far and you can make a comparison to
like the Green Party the green party may
be pathetic but at least exists or other
really small political movements or make
gay rights has been very successful
there are many many comparisons but no
veganism I think if you compare it to
any other movement just thinking about
the meaning of the word movement nowhere
so far we're all pathetic failure well I
think you could add the egg caveat that
you're not a complete failure you're a
known fader so you have somewhat some
success um well um something something
I've always wondered about but I know
it's like maybe maybe I shouldn't ask
you because i don't know if i will
understand that point of yours because i
know i heard a meeting of yours talking
about it and it was a long video and i
tried to understand i I just honestly
didn't understand like you in principle
I believe that it would be better
morally speaking for at least most
people to be vegan um in most
circumstances there are some
circumstances where we were well I would
not eat meat I wouldn't see it as
morally reprehensible as an example if I
found roadkill I wouldn't see it as
morally reprehensible just disgusting um
but for example something that I don't
quite get is um some of your like you
have as if I understand correctly you
have like a moral principle or ground or
base we're taking out an animal from
what we understand as its natural quote
unquote
habitat is usually wrong for example
with pets not only with cows but for
example with with dogs or cats well we
cats it is easier for me to see the
point because there are carnivores
science it's more complicated to say the
very very least but I don't fully
understand in what do you base and
please correct me if I'm misrepresenting
your pointed in any in any way but in
what do you base like eating inherently
better for a dog to live in the wild
that with a human if the human treats
the dog you know reasonably well
probably better than another dog's
subjective as as that that may be what
like it could you talk a bit about that
I it's difficult for me to understand
because for example obviously there are
humans in in in in tribal conditions and
I wouldn't say they necessarily live in
a more moral weight than that we do for
example humans in their more tribal
conditions usually I would say most of
them do need to eat at least
occasionally meat we can get some b12
supplements we can you know other stuff
and like I don't understand that am I
making myself understand sure sure sure
sure I totally I totally understand in
many many people ask me questions about
this um you know the thing I'm
questioning earlier you refer to in
passing one dog being treated well or a
dog being treated better than another
the fundamental question of values there
is what is good for a dog we obviously
have some concept that we create as
human beings of what is good for humans
and what is good for dogs my point is
that when we ask this about a lion or a
penguin we very clearly start from
asking how does the animal live in the
wild so we do keep Penguins in captivity
in zoos and in other government programs
because it's very expensive very few
people own penguins as pets but probably
a few
do probably a few millionaires own a
penguin as a pet but if you own it if if
you own a penguin yeah oh yeah good
example yeah so anyway if you own if you
own penguins in your zoo or in your
enormous house and you say okay how am I
going to treat these penguins well you
start by looking at some scientific
facts about how they look at in how they
live in the wild so what temperature is
good for them how much time do they
spend swimming how much time they spend
standing on the land how big does the
swimming pool need to be how many of
them should live in one group so like a
penguin obviously there are many species
penguins are not happy if they're alone
and they're not happy if they're too
crowded but they want to live in a group
so how many how many members in a group
will be happy or be normal or natural
and again you do have to use the word
natural so it is natural for penguins to
live in a social group not to just have
one penguin living all alone in a
swimming pool so it is very clear with
some animals that we use the logic of
how they live in the wild to you know
reconstruct what will be an acceptable
or good or good enough environment for
them now we may not be able to succeed
like maybe you just don't have enough
money maybe you've rescued some penguins
maybe you have an injured penguin that
only has one leg and you're just trying
to provide it with a life so that you
don't have to kill it you know like
there are really situations like that
with bears it's very common with horses
if you have a horse with three legs what
are you going to do you know okay life
isn't perfect my point was to draw
attention to something that is what we
call speciesism which is that vegans
even vegans turn off their brains and do
not think this way at all about dogs and
cats that they do not think about dogs
and cats the same way they would think
about a penguin or a lion and I have had
some extremely stupid responses from
vegans who just would say in English
they double down on that sir I'm trying
not to use too many English idioms but
by double down just means they accept
that this is stupid and they emphasize
it and they write to me very angrily
saying your argument makes no sense
because penguins and lions
are totally different from dogs and cats
because bears are totally different from
dogs and cats well no they're not
totally different in some ways a dog is
very similar to a bear no yes there are
some differences but there are also some
similarities we really need to talk
about so as soon as you have that
paradigm what I call the wildlife
management paradigm which is that you're
looking at dogs and cats not as equal to
humans but as equal to bears as equal to
penguins as equal to lions then we get
into some difficult questions and I
think the the simplest solution to those
questions is that a happy life for a dog
is for it to live in wild conditions or
even if you have a zoo to live in
conditions that are similar to the wild
and we would figure out what those
conditions are by studying how they live
in the wild the same way we do for
penguins so again once i think you have
those fundamental questions answer to
those fundamental values in place i
think there are many implications there
are many you know it's very clear that
long-term the vision i'm looking at is
to transition towards a society where we
we show our respect for animals not by
forcing them to do tricks for humans not
by forcing them to entertain our
children not by taking them to a pet
shop and giving them red fingernails or
dying their hair pink which is all
things people do to pet dogs by the way
I see it all the time you know not by
making them into toys but by
understanding what a life of dignity is
for them by studying how they live in
the wild so that's my approach I mean I
understand some some of what you say but
some of the some of the things that that
confused me a bit and maybe depending on
your answer and these follow-up
questions I could understand your point
more fully but I doubt you you're going
to answer them in a way that that would
actually make me understand it um like
for example let's say this is the
hypothesis I'm not saying I'm pulling
this out of any study or whatever but
let's say hypothetically that we find
out that
is more happy let's define it as I don't
know more endorphins happy endorphins
going around its brain it can generally
be more happy living with humans that
treat them reasonably well yes I know
it's a subjective term but we can more
or less imagine what it is anyways like
there's a range of how a human can treat
a dog for it to be happier than it would
be in the wildlife this is a position
i'm not saying this is true i know it
but if this was and if this was true if
it was true that a human could make a
dog happier than it would be in the
wildlife um yeah there look uh I think I
can I can I can shortcut that because in
a sense I've already conceded the point
when we talk about injured animals so if
you talk about a bear or with only three
legs or you talk about a penguin that
has maybe a broken wing where one wing
is injured then it's very easy because
you can say if we put this penguin back
in the wild it will die if we put this
bareback in the wild will die it would
be true I I think with a three-legged
dog too you know whatever so the reason
why I include that um so we have some
funny comments and if comments at you if
I start laughing is because somebody
says something funny sorry ah this is
what other treats its sexual tension
haha it's no sure it's not because of
the sexual I said I've changed the order
it was freezing cold in here it was
freezing cold when i started
broadcasting and now I'm down to my
t-shirt because it's warmed up here uh
yeah yeah but you see I think I think
the majority of my fans right now are
female you might be the only the only
male in the room right now but anyway no
we got a couple of men we got a couple
anyway look so I was just gonna say I
think that I'm actually giving you that
point when I talk about injured animals
because then the choice is between death
and life right and still I just say like
with many of these things I don't
think I have to have an answer that's a
hundred percent rational and perfect if
you're talking about a very wealthy
society like Canada is basically one of
the richest countries in the world but
still we you know do not have the money
to treat bears properly we have many
many problems with bears again a huge
number of bears and most of the time if
you call the government they will just
kill the bear instead of even using a
tranquilizer because then if they put
the bear to sleep they have to put the
bear on a truck they have to take it
away too it's it's too expensive for the
government to do now I know that sounds
ridiculous but that is the reality right
now in Canada so if you ask is it better
to provide this bear with a home whether
it's in a zoo or in a person's house or
a backyard I think the answer is going
to be idiosyncratic it's going to be
illogical it's going to be emotional and
I sort of accept that but I used to live
in Laos and Cambodia what do you think
what do you think happens to a
three-legged bear in the conditions of
poverty we're going to kill the bear and
as vegans we can pretend we would never
kill a bear [ __ ] you these are third
world conditions this is real political
you know this political reality now even
in Canada I don't know we could pass a
law in Canada to force the government to
stop killing bears that's an interesting
question it really is and you would then
have a budget of millions of dollars for
helping these bears it really is an
interesting question in Canada because
in theory our government has unlimited
money but in other ways we're running
out of money so you know okay is that a
priority or not but I just say for me as
a vegan I want to be realistic there are
vegans who say they will never even kill
mice that we should have a society where
mice and rats are never killed and I ask
have you ever been to a farm whether
it's a farm for fruit or a farm for you
know grain the reality is we are going
to continue killing mice and rats that
may be immoral that may be bad now on
the other hand you know if you risk if
you personally rescue a three-legged
bear and let's just say you have a house
with a big garden and you keep that bear
okay maybe you know many vegans will say
you're wonderful many vegans will praise
you and say you're a wonderful human
being for sale
three legged bear many thousands and
thousands of vegans well and you will
have a very popular YouTube channel you
can have YouTube videos of you and your
three-legged bear having fun and
everyone will say well here's the
problem every day you have to buy meat
to feed the bearer so now you're killing
cows to feed a bear so to me this is
again anti vegan so most of these
animals were talking about do eat meat
yes there are some exceptions I mean
rabbits do not eat meat rabbits only eat
vegetables but unless we're talking
about a herbivore animal then we have
another very difficult ethical question
even Penguins every day you keep
penguins alive you're killing fish so
why are we killing cows to keep this
three-legged bear alive really why now
you ask the question I understand your
question was what if the bear has a
better life as a pet than it would in
the forest and with a three-legged bear
it definitely but but my question also
is that ethical question that's all
don't worry I'm done talking but I would
say for me it's not just about the bear
or it's not just about the dog or not
just about the cat it's also about all
the cows that you're killing every day
to keep that pedal I've and for vegans
this then gets very uncomfortable it's
very difficult to answer the question I
did included my question that I wouldn't
say that for cats because they're
carnivores so um if a correct me if I'm
wrong like could i summarize your point
with um in general like no because
usually it would mean indirect support
of oil practically it would mean his
support of some somehow support the
killing of other animals in many cases
and but you would concede that in some
very specific cases for example a big
and three legged dog maybe it would be
morally conceivable to keep the pen well
yeah I think my real answer that is
basically that in in the real world
these decisions are going to be made
very emotionally they're going to be
made irrationally and they're going to
be made on a case-by-case basis in an
idiosyncratic way
the reality is yeah but as you say the
reality is if there is one specific
elephant and it had whether it has three
legs or whatever there's one elephant
and everybody in the newspaper is saying
this is such a wonderful elephant you
know this happens sometimes for some
reason the elephant becomes famous and
then people donate money then this
elephant will be saved that's the
reality of the world we live in and
sometimes vegans support that kind of
thing and sometimes vegans say this is
speciesism this is stupid you know why
are we helping this one elephants and we
were ignoring a million cows or mon
cheap so both impulses are there I'm
just saying I accept that it's not going
to make sense but I also say we need to
accept or we need to look at the reality
of the fact we can't save all bears
maybe you'll be great if we could we
can't save all rats we can't so right
now the reality is a particular bear we
in Canada we had to bear cubs so too
baby bears and you know some photographs
of them were put in the newspaper and
then everyone wanted to save these two
baby bears well okay we can you know
just because their photograph is in the
newspaper and they're cute we can but
you know if you tell me we're going to
have a no-kill policy for all bears
everywhere in Canada I believe me as a
vegan I would love to have that debate
but I just say the answer is not going
to be rational and obviously people
making these decisions about their own
dogs are totally irrational people
cats and you know currently in the in
the Muslim world really specifically in
the Arab world it is very popular for
people to own giant cats so you know not
just lions and tigers but leopards and
that kind of thing so there are people
who own those types of predatory cats so
it is actually fashionable to own those
and people are making those decisions
every day and I think they're totally
totally rational bike but in a sense I
accept the irrationality you know what I
mean but something wouldn't you say at
least it's usually my personal opinion I
would like you to take on that that
morality at least for me it must pass
through reason because
you know anything that you want to be a
reasonably practical will have to pass
your reasons so that it has efficient or
effective effect sorry the resonance in
reality but i would say that morality is
usually based in emotion like like for
example select at least to me most of
what i consider morality i know there
are other conceptions but most of what i
consider morality is usually based on an
emotion like on the fact of you and want
others to suffer and if you can promote
well-being at a reasonable cost then
that is morally superior just because of
the sake of it being well-being and
there's not really a rational there
comes a point where you must say like
this is the objective and you can have a
like a rational do you can like have a
rational discussion of why you chose
this objective but ultimately it will
depend on pre your objectives like you
can say for example let's say that I
don't know save the Dolphins here and
ultimately the reason is gonna be I love
dolphins they're cute I like them okay
it can be completely different but maybe
you get my point like isn't morality
usually based on emotion like it doesn't
mean it has to be irrational in the fact
that it doesn't need to be completely
divorced of reason but I think I know
like what's your take isn't morality
usually for many people based the motion
way to some people some somewhere moral
dilemmas are based on unwrapped you know
on vengeance that that does exist like
the concept of just you must punish him
because he did this [ __ ] and I'm so
[ __ ] angry it would be morally wrong
for him to be you know whatever wherever
when when he was so wrong with he didn't
[ __ ] torture him yeah sure look I do
I mean the sense in which many many
people think i'm a pessimist but one of
the ways in which i'm an optimist is
that i do think we're going through a
period
of you know real cultural progress in
that just when I was a child people
would be discussing that issue the
question of whether or not you should
help the the Dolphins while wearing
leather gloves and leather shoes and
seeing no no conflict with that and the
fact that we progressed to the point
where at least the people who are having
that debate about cute dolphins at least
they realize that there's a serious
moral obligation them not to wear
leather shoes nuts wear the leather
gloves you know that if you want to
advocate for animal rights veganism is
is kind of a prerequisite you can't be
you know so this is actually a very
significant former progress now you know
again the other really optimistic
examples i use are gay rights and
smoking even alcohol you know the idea
of how much alcohol consumption is
normal and natural this has changed a
lot um so you know yeah you're correct
you sketch out the reality of a world in
which most moral conversations and moral
decision-making is very irrational and
very emotional but of course the
cultural context for that the questions
that even get asked yeah yeah devoid of
reason you know but it like that
something has its basis in emotion to me
doesn't need to mean that it is the
voice of reason you know like you can do
whatever you want in a very practical
well thought and planned way and you do
it because I'd only any emotional reason
do you choose you know i would divorce
the concept of irrational and emotional
because well emotion in itself is not
rational the presence of emotion does
not make you into it I don't know
drooling you know like do you get what
I'm saying maybe yeah my point was that
the context for all that is cultural and
it really does change with time in
dramatic ways there was a guidebook a
tourist guide book for Europe I forget
when let's say this is the year 1300 and
you know it very casually
described how people would would pass
their time in England by going to watch
executions and this guy book this is
just a stupid example but it was
describing a man being tortured to death
in public in the middle of the city for
having stolen a pie a stack of paper so
you know in English we say stationery
you know now paper was more expensive at
the time but still it's an observed
crime now at that time in many parts of
you know Christian Europe people believe
that if you committed a very small crime
you were an evil person so it didn't
matter like the fact that you stole you
made this one small theft you could
basically be punished as the same as a
murderer because a person who would
commit a small crime as an evil person
who's willing to create a big crime so
those are cultural assumptions another
one that's very dramatic well another
another change that's very dramatic
again within Christian Europe and and
the then the world that they were
colonized it used to be very common for
men to fight duels to fight a duel to
the death and many people point this out
in America because in America the laws
never changed so in the first few
decades after the American Revolution
and the American Constitution it was
still completely normal for men to fight
each other to death with swords or with
guns over a point of Honor and a point
of Honor really could be like you said
my girlfriend was fat so now we're going
to kill each other was a normal part of
American culture at the same time was a
normal part of Italian culture by the
way I mean different different countries
than Europe had different cultures of
dueling and men fighting to the death
and if whoever went to court the judges
would dismiss it that was not considered
murder that was not considered a crime
if two men agreed that they would fight
each other to the death then that wasn't
murder that wasn't assault that was
completely normal so the irony is in
American most countries in Europe since
that time they've had new revolutions
new laws new constitutions sameen France
has had so many revolutions nobody can
count obviously some people count but
hey Francis had Laurie written many many
times America actually the law never
changed so there is Lee there's still a
country kind of built on those those
norms
so what changed now you know yes people
are emotional yes people are willing to
kill each other over these kinds of
short-term emotional and irrational
decisions these are illustrated you know
these examples are illustrations of that
but still you can say one sense in which
I'm an optimist is that I can see very
real progress over 300 years and
questions that weren't even asked before
now get asked I think today I mean if
somebody insults me there there's
absolutely no tolerance for escalating
it into a you know a deadly contest
there's no tolerance that at all and
instead the question being asked is well
he insulted you but why did you make the
situation worse why did you make it more
hostile so you know again without even
legislation changing a different set of
cultural attitudes shapes the moral
questions and shapes the moral answers
so a game it may seem a trivial or it
may seem small but the fact that people
now are not wearing leather gloves when
they ask those questions I think does
lead to different answers I think we're
in a period of that kind of cultural
change and I hope vegans can be leaders
of that cultural change instead of being
a bad joke in the middle of that
cultural change what do you by the way
only it's kind of a short answer but
someone asks them to Chad what would you
think about someone owning a fish tank
and just feeding the fish I assume vegan
stuff yeah I mean I think it's I think
it's bad but you know for me as a vegan
it's not my top 10 list for for activism
I mean there was a woman here there's a
woman here I'll admit I was somewhat
attracted to here in China who I was
chatting with and one of the distinctive
things about her she owned these very
colorful fish that I happen to know a
lot about it's a long story why I know
about these fish involving another woman
but anyway uh she owned what are called
Thai fighting fish these are fish from
Thailand and one day I stopped by and
chatted with this woman I said oh what
what happened all your fish because
they're very very bright and colorful
and this is a type of fish that wants to
alone they're not happy in a group in
nature if two of them are put together
they'll kill each other they'll fight to
the death so they're they're relatively
popular because you can keep them you
can keep one fish in each fishbowl sort
of thing and and they're happier that
way and that's also an interesting
question again I looked into that you do
if you want them to be happy again you
have to recreate their natural
conditions as closely as possible which
includes places for them to hide the
places they feel safe there all these
different thanks and she said oh um one
day it was cold and they all died that's
it they're they're evolved for that
climate in Thailand and here in
conveying its it's too cold nailed I'd
you know I mean I think inevitably if
you're gonna own animals as a decoration
if you're going to own animals as a form
of entertainment um this is this is the
result of course they're disposable of
course their lives mean nothing in a
sense I think their lives mean even less
than animals being raised for meat you
know so yeah it's bad now on my list of
things to do as a vegan you screaming at
people who keep fish as pets is nowhere
on the list but you know I do think I do
think in terms of the human attitudes
involved I think it's very clear to see
that there is a cycle of suffering there
that I think any any vegan has to kind
of object to but I you know if you want
to make exceptions with everything there
exceptions obviously you know some
people are doing some people have
scientific reasons they have some
legitimate reason to keep fishing at
captivity but it's bad if that's your
buddy for me
whoa isn't it I was thinking well you
were telling me the thing about the fish
and the women like if you wrote about
this somewhere like maybe as a blog or
whatever like I could imagine the story
about the fish and the women being
something like there's a lot of fish
house they're eating English like there
are a lot of visions I know yeah but I
mean you know I think that's one of the
advantages of me being on YouTube now
back when I used to write when he
started a blog people got more easily
offended by this I think people are
aware of the human reality I mean right
now I'm streaming this live we're
talking voice to voice if mean I think
that actually there are a lot of
advantages to to doing this in video
format so we'll see but I mean I think
actually that same story probably if I
wrote it and a blog I can imagine pretty
easily the type of hate mail I would get
from past experience but yeah well cuz
well we're talking about gray areas
we're talking about conflicting things
right so surely you can talk without
without there being someone hating about
it somewhere surely come no every every
video somebody heard like you cannot say
something meaningful without someone
hating on yeah I would say like if you
manage to say something without someone
hating on it you probably haven't have a
real audience yeah or and it truly was
not meaningful like I don't know a lot
of non meaningful stuff still receive a
lot of hate every every video I point
put up I get some comments from people
saying you're fat you're ugly you're
stupid and I get some comments from
women saying hey I heard you're single I
want to meet you let's hook up so you
get this range of responses most of them
shallow nobody mean to give credit where
it's due I really do I really do
appreciate my audience and I do get
philosophical in really meaningful
response to people sometimes talking
about their own lives son is talking
about the political issues involved and
look I want to give credit to you too
alejandro we've now talked for more than
30 minutes we never talked before but I
think I think your questions are
meaningful like I don't think this is
[ __ ]
I don't think this is a waste of
anyone's time and so you know you you
you create content and then you hope
that the people who who need to see it
will find it and sometimes the people
who need to see it are the people who
want to see it and you know sometimes
the people who need to see it are people
who hate it and who get very angry
seeing it but maybe that maybe that has
you know maybe that has an impact to
right maybe something good comes from
that I gotta say like almost I think I
think I've never heard a video of yours
you've definitely erased some points and
not necessarily and I don't necessarily
agree usually I at least can't see your
perspective but like I don't think i've
ever heard a video of years so far and i
definitely i don't think i have heard
like fourth of them but still i don't
think i have heard of any of you so far
that i found um I know like stupid like
you're actually entertaining and
sometimes this entertaining be like
because you get these very nuanced
points although they tend to be
interesting issues um yeah I like that
that's a comet i would give you like I I
usually enjoy your videos even if I
don't agree they're there they're very
they're interesting perspectives if
nothing else well thanks very much I
appreciate that go ahead you should keep
talking it's cool huh really um oh yeah
and what was then create could you talk
about about a bit about how how has the
kids book going I find that very very
interesting I think like these little
things that people many times don't put
a lot of waiting i do think like
something like a kids book someone was
saying in the chat a quorum something
like children being a good place to put
some effort when you want like to
normalize the behavior or to make it a
bit more mainstream because well it is
true that you
need to be a majority or even half the
population to have an impact obviously
if more than half in population eats
meat or animal products obviously that
there will be slaughtered like it's not
gonna all come from roadkill you know um
but I find that the project really
really interesting like how has that
been going uh well basically I've been
talking to different illustrators I got
a new email from one illustrator or
today or within the last 24 hours um the
illustrators I talk to you who are
actually successful like people who are
already earning their money-making
children's books they're busy so one of
them who is a professional illustrator
she said she would talk to me again in
December so she told me that a few
months ago so I guess we're going to
talk again soon and there was another
illustrator who was vegan who did reply
to me and said she was interested but
then never replied again I think the the
other good news is that most of those
illustrators they do not get paid very
much money per page and the book is not
that long I assume if you search by the
way if you searched for the word story
book on my channel just my name is
listen to us if you search for the word
story book you'll get a couple of
different videos that include the script
because it's now been translated into a
few languages already so it's in English
it's in Chinese it's in it's in Russian
I think I've got a German translation
coming Oh yo a Swedish translation too
so a lot of people are excited about the
book just based on what I've written but
yeah you talk to illustrators on a case
by case basis and I mean I may have to
do fundraising if the illustrator wants
a few hundred dollars for each page you
know to be paid at the start and that
and I decide that's really the best
illustrator I can get then we would have
to do fundraising for that so as you
know it really is a shame I am
frustrated that the court case in
Thailand is not finished that it hasn't
been completed yet because I people
obviously expect me to complete that
court case before I do fundraising for
another cause so we I don't know I'll at
some point i'll have to look at that
let's look at when are we finally going
to finish this court case in thailand
and should i do fundraising for that but
maybe I can work with an illustrator who
will just be happy to do the
illustration
one's for you know a percentage of the
money that's generated but this book is
going to generate very little money
amino this is really a charity project
to make this book available and so
that's I guess I'm a combination of
optimistic and pessimistic about that
but I think I think maybe the bad news
is it really is possible that the court
case will either delay or kind of
sabotage trying to get the book to
happen and as i mentioned recently in
another video durianrider and cheetah
they openly said that when i try to do
fundraising for the book they would they
would sabotage it however the good news
is if I was doing fundraising to the
book it would be very little money the
total amount of money would be so low
that they might not matter so like when
I heard that I am not so my kind of
recent video was like what the like what
the [ __ ] happened do you have any like
well how I can't imagine someone like
being very fair equally interested in
veganism and and wanting to [ __ ] up this
kind of project you have so a TV if it
is of someone you despise or hate or
whether it's like why would you try to
[ __ ] up that that's just damn it like oh
do you have a how do you know that this
happened like this meaning two sabotages
oh because they did it on the internet
because it was I guess it's not secret
so no the only reason I know but they
they talked about this on the internet
no no it's not a rumor oh but you know
oh look i was gonna say I'm again cuz
it's great to argue but we know gone 40
minutes so I should wrap it up but um
you know the the sad thing is I had a
video a few months ago talking about the
idea of dying for veganism of getting
killed because you're vegan be I was
actually in response to another youtuber
pena she was saying she was gonna quit
YouTube because she was afraid she would
get killed now I think it's [ __ ] and
she hasn't quit YouTube and I think she
wasn't really afraid of getting killed
but in any case whether or not that was
[ __ ] that video I raised a bunch of
questions what does it mean to live for
the cause
dive because something that's really sad
that is reflected in this whole
discourse connected to durianrider and
the court case and the story book why is
it that the threat to me is from other
vegans I'm not afraid of the meat
industry killing me I'm not afraid of
the meat industry stopping that book
from getting published that's no problem
the the the dairy industry the milk
industry they're not trying to stop the
book from getting published other vegans
are trying to stop me from publishing a
choice to my book that's you know
supports vegans it's basically it's
vegan propaganda for children right so
that is I mean sadly that's I think the
deepest and the shallowest lesson we
have to draw from this is that I'm
spending my time managing hostility from
and sabotage sabotage i think is the
word from other vegans and i don't i
don't need them to support me but that
is really what we have to reflect on
anyway it's been great talking to you I
do hope that at some point in the future
you'll become vegan it's always nice to
open the door to someone it's not vegan
but obviously you're already interested
enough that you get the whole point of
the movement I mean I can tell from this
conversation you know I didn't know when
I had you I didn't know if you were
going to be a you know a bit of a troll
or someone who wasn't really interested
but obviously you already get the point
and you're already interested in some of
these more nuanced and sophisticated
questions about how we treat animals in
the wild and the long-term prospects for
the movement so it's great it's great to
meet you alondra and look you know life
is long maybe I have you on the show
again one year from now maybe five years
from now I don't know my life here in
China is unpredictable but it would be
great to get you on the show some time
and hear about you know what's going on
in South America and maybe how your own
your own views have changed because I
met one year is a long time on the
internet maybe one here in the future
you know you would really have a
different perspective on many of these
things I I bonus yen